#LyX 2.3 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 544
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass article
\begin_preamble
\usepackage{hyperref}
\hypersetup{colorlinks=true,urlcolor=blue}
\date{}
\end_preamble
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman "lmodern" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\use_microtype false
\use_dash_ligatures false
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\float_placement H
\paperfontsize 11
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry true
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 0
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine natbib
\cite_engine_type authoryear
\biblio_style plainnat
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 0
\use_minted 0
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\leftmargin 3cm
\topmargin 3cm
\rightmargin 3cm
\bottommargin 3cm
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation skip
\defskip smallskip
\is_math_indent 0
\math_numbering_side default
\quotes_style english
\dynamic_quotes 0
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle empty
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title

\shape smallcaps
\size largest
Project 1: Data Analysis Project
\end_layout

\begin_layout Author
Christian Carstensen
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset ERT
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout


\backslash
vspace{-3mm}
\backslash
thispagestyle{empty}
\end_layout

\end_inset


\series bold
Vision: 
\series default
Programming is more than writing code.
 The ultimate goal of the projects in this course is that you learn to formulate
 a programming problem of your own choice, and find your own way to solve
 it, and present the results.
 The bullets below are minimum requirements, but otherwise it is very much
 up to you, what you will like to do with your project.
 Remember to write your code in a manner that is apt for others to run and
 read when providing feedback.
 I hope to see some creative ideas!
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize

\series bold
Objectives:
\series default
 In your data analysis project, you should show that you can:
\end_layout

\begin_deeper
\begin_layout Enumerate
Apply data cleaning and data structuring methods (L07 and L08).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
Apply data analysis methods (L07 and L08).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
Structure a code project (L05).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
Document code (L05).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
Present results in text form and in figures (L03, L06 and L07).
\end_layout

\end_deeper
\begin_layout Itemize

\series bold
Content:
\series default
 Find a subject you are interested in or perhaps have knowledge about already.
 For example the subject of your BA thesis (if you are that far), something
 related to your student job, or perhaps what you would like write about
 in your next thesis or seminar paper.
 The important thing here is the quality of the code and the presentation
 of results, not whether you acquire new economic knowledge.
 In your data analysis project, you should at a minimum:
\end_layout

\begin_deeper
\begin_layout Enumerate
Import data from an online source of your own choosing (through download
 or an API).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
Present the data visually (and perhaps interactively).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
Apply some method(s) from descriptive economics (
\begin_inset Quotes ald
\end_inset

samfundsbeskrivelse
\begin_inset Quotes ard
\end_inset

).
 That is, make a report that tells a story in numbers and graphs about an
 economic phenomenon or trend.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\series bold
Example of structure: 
\series default

\begin_inset CommandInset href
LatexCommand href
name "See this repository"
target "https://github.com/NumEconCopenhagen/example-2022"
literal "false"

\end_inset

.
\end_layout

\end_deeper
\begin_layout Itemize

\series bold
Structure: 
\series default
Your data analysis project should consist of:
\end_layout

\begin_deeper
\begin_layout Enumerate
A README.md with a short introduction to your project.
 It is written in Markdown like a Jupyter Notebook.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
A single self-contained notebook (.ipynb) presenting the analysis.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
(Optionally) Fully documented Python module files (.py).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
Data.
 If you do not access data through an API call in your Python scripts, then
 you must store it in a .csv file that is uploaded to your repository along
 code files.
 Note that Github won't allow you to upload very large data sets (ie.
 multiple GBs).
\end_layout

\end_deeper
\begin_layout Itemize

\series bold
Size: 
\series default
\emph on
Quality before quantity
\emph default
.
 Cleaning and joining a couple of data sets and then making some interactive
 figures might be just fine.
 Else you will be asked to extend it for the exam.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize

\series bold
Hand-in: 
\series default
On GitHub by uploading it to your repository in the dataproject folder:
\end_layout

\begin_deeper
\begin_layout Quote
github.com/projects-2022-YOURGROUPNAME/dataproject/
\end_layout

\end_deeper
\begin_layout Itemize

\series bold
Deadline:
\series default
 10th of April 23.59
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize

\series bold
Peer feedback: 
\series default
After handing in, you will be asked to give peer feedback on the projects
 of two other groups.
 We will go over this in the lectures.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize

\series bold
Exam: 
\series default
Your data analysis project will be a part of your exam portfolio.
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset

You can incorporate feedback before handing in the final version.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
\begin_inset Formula $\mathbf{Note:}$
\end_inset

 You can find a few suggestions for APIs to use in the notebook for L08.
 You are very welcome to find data elsewhere!
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
