#LyX 2.3 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 544
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass article
\begin_preamble
\usepackage{hyperref}
\hypersetup{colorlinks=true,urlcolor=blue}
\date{}
\end_preamble
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman "lmodern" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\use_microtype false
\use_dash_ligatures false
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\float_placement H
\paperfontsize 11
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry true
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 0
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine natbib
\cite_engine_type authoryear
\biblio_style plainnat
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 0
\use_minted 0
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\leftmargin 2.7cm
\topmargin 1cm
\rightmargin 2cm
\bottommargin 2.7cm
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation skip
\defskip smallskip
\is_math_indent 0
\math_numbering_side default
\quotes_style english
\dynamic_quotes 0
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle empty
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title

\shape smallcaps
\size largest
Project 2: Model Analysis Project
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset ERT
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout


\backslash
vspace{-3mm}
\backslash
thispagestyle{empty}
\end_layout

\end_inset


\series bold
Vision: 
\series default
Programming is more than writing code.
 The ultimate goal of the projects in this course is that you learn to formulate
 a programming problem of your own choice, and find your own way to solve
 it, and present the results.
 The bullets below are minimum requirements, but otherwise it is very much
 up to you, what you will like to do with your project.
 You can use pretty much any economic model that you have encountered during
 your studies.
 It is not a bad idea to do further work on a model you already have a good
 understanding of from a course, seminar or bachelor thesis.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\series bold
Note: 
\series default
If you departure point is a model presented in the lectures (e.g.
 AS-AD) or in the problem sets (e.g.
 the Solow model), the requirement for passing is higher than if you start
 from scratch.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize

\series bold
Objectives:
\series default
 In your model analysis project, you should show that you can:
\end_layout

\begin_deeper
\begin_layout Enumerate
Apply numerical model analysis methods such as optimization and equation
 solving
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
Structure a code project.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
Document code.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
Present results in text form and in figures (put text in Markdown cells).
\end_layout

\end_deeper
\begin_layout Itemize

\series bold
Content:
\series default
 In your model analysis project, you should at a minimum:
\end_layout

\begin_deeper
\begin_layout Enumerate
Describe an algorithm on how to solve your economic model
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
Solve the model using an optimization routine or an equation solver and
 simulate it.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
Visualize how the solution changes across parametrizations.
 This is an important task (that also works as a debugging device).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
Analyze one or more extensions of the baseline model.
\end_layout

\end_deeper
\begin_layout Itemize

\series bold
Limitation: 
\series default
\emph on
sympy
\emph default
 can only play a small role in your project because the focus must be on
 the 
\emph on
numerical
\emph default
 solution.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize

\series bold
Structure: 
\series default
Your model analysis project should consist of:
\end_layout

\begin_deeper
\begin_layout Enumerate
A README.md with a short introduction to your project
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
A single self-contained notebook (.ipynb) presenting the analysis
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
Fully documented Python files (.py)
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\series bold
Example of structure: 
\series default

\begin_inset CommandInset href
LatexCommand href
name "See this repository"
target "https://github.com/NumEconCopenhagen/IntroProg-example"
literal "false"

\end_inset

.
\end_layout

\end_deeper
\begin_layout Itemize

\series bold
Size: 
\series default
\emph on
Quality before quantity
\emph default
.
 It is better to have a rather simple but well-tested model with nice vizualizat
ion and simulation compared to a larger model that does not succeed entirely.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize

\series bold
Hand-in: 
\series default
On GitHub by uploading it to the folder:
\end_layout

\begin_deeper
\begin_layout Quote
github.com/projects-YEAR-YOURGROUPNAME/modelproject/
\end_layout

\end_deeper
\begin_layout Itemize

\series bold
Deadline:
\series default
 See 
\begin_inset CommandInset href
LatexCommand href
name "Calendar"
target "https://sites.google.com/view/numeconcph-introprog/calendar"
literal "false"

\end_inset

.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize

\series bold
Exam: 
\series default
Your model analysis project will be a part of your exam portfolio.
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset

You can incorporate feedback before handing in the final version.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize

\series bold
Peer feedback: 
\series default
After handing in, you will be asked to give peer feedback on the projects
 of two other groups.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize

\series bold
General advice:
\series default
 In the beginning of the project, write your code in the way 
\begin_inset Formula $you$
\end_inset

 find most intuitive.
 Also if that is a slow implementation, which does not use optimized routines
 and such.
 You can then begin to optimize it when things seem to work the way you
 intend.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize

\series bold
Advice for choosing a model: 
\series default
You should preferably choose a model you are already familiar with, and
 you should definitely choose a model you find interesting.
 Think back to courses you have taken or are currently taking, particularly
 elective courses, a seminar or your bachelor thesis.
 Which models did you find the most exciting? Maybe there was a model which
 had an assumption you found unrealistic, which you could change and still
 be able to solve the model using numerical methods? 
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
